[WHOOSH]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>SUE MORTER: Healing
often requires
one to go on a journey
to identify and release
the core issues and wounds
that have been at play often,
for a lifetime.
Anahata Ananda, a healer
in Sedona, Arizona,
is the founder of an approach
she calls shamangelic healing.
With the wisdom of a shaman
and the compassion of an angel,
Anahata guides profound
journeys of core healing
and spiritual awakening.
Welcome, Anahata,
to "Healing Matrix."
>>ANAHATA ANANDA: Oh,
it's such a pleasure
to be a part of Gaia,
this platform that
is really bringing consciousness
to millions of people.
So thank you for having me.
>>SUE: Yes, our great pleasure.
We are delighted to be gathering
a community around the world
to hold the space
for something deeper.
>>ANANDA: Yes, it's time.
>>SUE: Radical healing.
>>ANANDA: It's time, really is.
>>SUE: Wholeness, that's
what we're interested in.
So tell us right off the bat,
what is shamanic healing?
>>ANANDA: Well, shamanic
healing goes really deep.
And this shamanic
traditions, there
are so many around the
world, there isn't just one.
Shamanic healing does not just
address one modality, or one
belief, or one tradition.
Shamanism covers a range
of different cultures,
different belief
systems, and traditions.
And one of the things that
we can address with shamanism
is addressing the
deep core wounds.
The shaman is not afraid
to go into the shadows.
to face the fears,
to go into the darkness.
And with shamanism, there's
also a deep connection
with mother nature,
and the elements,
and the power that lies within.
And the courage to go take a
look at what's really there.
There's many modalities that can
be addressed within shamanism.
We can have the
seer or the Oracle.
We can have the healer that
does emotional clearing and soul
retrieval.
We can have the medicine
man or the medicine
woman that uses plants to heal.
Or breath.
And so there's many different
modalities within shamanism
that we can leverage.
>>SUE: Anahata, how did you
get into shamanic healing?
>>ANANDA: Well, it was
really from my own dark night
of the soul.
I was going through a time in
my life where I was unhappy.
And I think I was following
somebody else's dream.
I was following what everybody
else's journey to happiness.
And it didn't really
fit who I was.
And so, I also had some
core wounds from childhood
that I was taking into
adulthood and that
were sabotaging my life,
and my relationships,
and my happiness, and
my health at the time.
And traditional modalities
were really not supporting me
in getting at the core wounds.
And helping me learn
different tools and approaches
to really empower and awaken.
And so, I sought out a
shamanic healer at the time
to really help get
out the heaviness.
I was depressed, and
angry, and upset, and sad.
And didn't really
have the support
to move through that properly.
And for me, traditional
modalities were falling short.
And I wanted to get
at the core stuff.
And it was a challenge
and courageous
to try something different.
>>SUE: So had you
tried traditional?
In what way?
What types of
modalities where you?
>>ANANDA: So
counseling, primarily.
And at that time, the
counseling that I was engaged in
was just touching the
tip of the iceberg
and the issues were so much
deeper and below the surface.
We were talking about these
little incidental things
and we weren't addressing
the core issues
and what was underneath it all.
And I was quite frustrated
that we weren't really getting
anywhere.
And I didn't know that there
were some core wounds that I
was taking into my adult life.
And that I also didn't have the
tools to learn accountability,
learn conscious communication,
and heal those issues
from my past so that I could be
empowered in my relationships.
And take care of my
own energy and honor
my own emotional intelligence
and learn how to do that.
And I wasn't raised that
way and most of us weren't.
And I wanted to seek out
alternatives that would
empower me as an individual.
And give me the
tools to be better
in relationships
and a better spouse,
and a better parent,
and a better human.
>>SUE: You mentioned,
there are many types
of shamanic traditions,
which of those
were you drawn to personally?
>>ANANDA: For me, it was
deep emotional clearing.
So a friend of mine
referred me to a shaman
in LA that did a deep
emotional clearing.
And in that situation,
we went so deep
I had no idea that in my first
session rage would come up.
I mean, I was angry.
I was irritated.
But I had no idea that it was so
deep that rage would come out.
And so in our first
session, it was
so liberating to allow deep
anger from the disappointment
of things that didn't go my way
and deep grief from the sadness
of losses and emotion that
had been oppressed for so
many years, in fact, decades.
And it was so liberating to
have a safe, cathartic release
of all of this emotion
that had been oppressed.
A safe space for anger and
a safe space for grief.
And it was so liberating.
>>SUE: And so is this what you
do now with shamanic healing?
You're providing the
environment for people
to have these
cathartic experiences?
Can you just share a little
bit about what you're doing.
>>ANANDA: Yeah, I
think it's so valuable
in the shamanic experience,
the deep emotional clearing
to go into the pain.
And so shamangelic blends that.
Where we go into the darkness,
and the shadow, and the pain,
and the sadness and allow a safe
space for it to be released,
expressed.
And the angelic part,
which is a little
different than the shamanic
part, the angelic part
does so with the
embrace of an angel.
>>SUE: Let's take a
look at the work Anahata
does with shamangelic healing.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
- Hello, I'm Anahata
Ananda, your soul guide
for empowerment and awakening.
And founder of
shamangelic Healing
that is based right
here in Sedona, Arizona.
And I have guided
thousands of my clients
through big core life shifts.
Supporting them with
the tools and the road
map to turn their life around
and create a thriving life
that they absolutely love.
But it started with a
catalyst, a wake up call.
Often, that's a
relationship drama.
I mean, who isn't going through
a challenge in the heart?
So sometimes that's in the
form of a breakup or a divorce.
Or maybe a wound from the
past that hasn't healed.
Or just a troubled relationship
that you're having challenges
navigating how to
communicate clearly.
Sometimes it's just
feeling stuck and stagnant
in a life that or a career that
feels kind of unfulfilling.
Maybe it doesn't fit any longer.
Maybe it never did.
Sometimes it's grief.
Dealing with the loss
of a loved one that
is just hard to move forward
and it's hard to heal.
A loss of a loved one
or a chapter in life
that you're grieving and
having trouble moving forward.
It's not uncommon with all
of this emotional chaos,
and stress, and not
knowing how to navigate it
for it to overflow into some
unhealthy lifestyle patterns.
Maybe even leading to
some addictive behaviors.
Self-sabotaging things that
are really harmful or hurtful
for you or others.
Can you relate to feeling
overwhelmed and not having
the tools and having a
downward spiral sometimes?
I know I've been there.
And sometimes the catalyst is
just a spiritual awakening,
where there's this journey
of moving forward and healing
and moving into a
new phase of life.
But then feeling
stuck and pulled back
to old habits, old beliefs,
and unhealthy cycles that
keep repeating over and
over and over, again.
And a struggle with
that transformation
into a new way of living.
[END PLAYBACK]
>>SUE: Now, part of
your specific work
is dealing with
deep core wounds.
Can you explain for our
viewers what a core wound is?
>>ANANDA: Thank you for that.
And I think, all of us one of
the things we have in common
are some core wounds
where maybe in childhood,
or young adulthood, or even
in adulthood where we felt
rejected.
Where we felt unloved.
Where we weren't embraced.
Or maybe oppressed
or not allowed
to be our authentic selves.
And whether that's
from the abandonment
of a parent, or maybe emotional
unavailability, or some trauma
physically,
emotionally, sexually,
mentally, or
energetically that we
were on the receiving end of.
And that's where the
core wound happens,
where we didn't see it coming.
We didn't know
what was happening.
And that's really where
the initial pain happens
that says I'm not enough.
I'm not lovable.
I'm not worthy.
There's something wrong with me.
And that's the core pain.
And sometimes on
top of that, there's
a secondary wound that says
when this core wound happened,
I wasn't able to express
about it because there wasn't
a safe place for me to express.
Or my emotions were shamed from
family members or from society.
Or I wasn't allowed
to speak about it
when I expressed about it.
My voice was stifled or
my expression oppressed.
And so then there's a
secondary wound on top of that,
that I'm not allowed to feel.
>>SUE: Can you share with us the
mechanism between the deep core
wound and then this surface
of life living dysfunction?
>>ANANDA: Yes.
>>SUE: What is
the mechanism here
that makes it necessary to
go to these deep core spaces?
And the reason I ask is that
many of our viewers are like,
I don't want to feel the pain.
Thanks very much,
I'm doing fine.
And as long as I stay out
running it, I'll be just fine.
However, we know that we
get down the road far enough
and things catch up with us
and it doesn't work that way.
So can you just
share the connection
to connect those dots?
>>ANANDA: Because
we don't outrun it.
The cycles keep repeating
in our past, if unresolved,
becomes our future
over and over again.
And so we can have the illusion
that we're out running it.
So then there's
this third wounding
that happens that in the
betrayal and the denial
of going into the
deep, then there's
all of these other set
of circumstances that
come when I'm oppressing it.
We might have had
that core wound
from an experience of somebody
else and now this time
around, it's suppressing
that says, hey,
I don't want to feel it.
I don't want to deal with it.
And then we started
oppressing our own feelings
and our own truth.
And then that becomes
addiction, depression,
and all of these
additional consequences.
And I think that when we keep
experiencing these cycles over
and over again, it's the
invitation of our soul
to go back to the
original wound.
Because as it repeats
over and over again,
the cycles and the
patterns raise the stakes.
And so it gives us the power
to rewrite our story and rise
above it.
And not be held
captive by it anymore.
Which, I think, is truly
where the liberation
and the empowerment
comes and the freedom
to write this next
chapter of life
with greater tools of
awareness and empowerment.
>>SUE: It's almost like there's
this purpose on a soulful level
that we have these wounds to
begin with that ultimately,
if we allow this moment where
a wounding was occurring
and then the secondary wounding
on top of that is occurring,
that it's actually
an invitation for us
to grow into who we
came here to become.
To awaken to our true self.
The wound isn't a bad thing.
And the happening of
it isn't a bad thing,
even though it might have been
confusing or difficult. Yes?
>>ANANDA: I feel that
it's a classroom,
the wounding is a classroom.
And our soul has
created a classroom
that is providing us with the
opportunity to heal and awaken.
And so there isn't any
wound, I believe, that we
aren't capable of healing.
And in the classroom, we get
to look back and say well,
what did I learn from that
trauma, from that experience?
Although, as
traumatizing as it may be
and I want to honor
how challenging
that is and I want bring
compassion and that's
where the compassion and that's
where the angel comes in.
And we are not defined or
confined by that trauma.
We can be free of it.
And there are pearls
when we have the courage
to go look at it and discover
what is there for me,
then we can take the
lesson that gives us
the power, the insight, the
perspective to rise above it
and make different choices.
>>SUE: So we can
almost look forward
to digging in because our power
is underneath that very thing.
That which we are missing is
right underneath this wounded
compacted aspect of ourselves.
>>ANANDA: Yes, and a lot
of times what we are here
to do as a soul, there are
tools, there are treasures,
there are gifts locked
in those traumas
and in those
challenges of our past
that we're going to need
for our soul's mission.
Even if it was 10 years ago, 20
years ago, or four decades ago,
or many lifetimes ago,
our soul's path in order
to move forward will
need those tools.
And it's always this, I've
got to go back and unlock
that treasure to follow
my soul's mission
to have that tool, that
gift, that perspective that's
going to help me serve others.
Or it's going to give me a
perspective, or an insight,
or an intelligence that I need
from my soul's mission right
now.
They're connected,
they're linked to.
>>SUE: Yes, people
would never realize
that it's just a chain reaction
that's just keeps happening.
Speaking of chain
reaction, speak to us
about ancestral karma.
What is the chain that's
unfolding and rolling
forward here?
>>ANANDA: Well, as kids, we take
on so much from our parents.
And if we're involved
in evolution--
which I get excited about this
because I feel that we're here
to participate in evolution.
And if we're here to
participate in evolution, then
that means what our parents gave
us or our grandparents gave us,
which might be
wonderful values, there
might be a lot of positive
things in there for the viewers
and for all of us.
When we mine the treasures that
we received from our ancestors.
And there also might
have been just,
perhaps, maybe, some
unconscious patterns.
Some let's put it
under the carpet,
let's not talk about it.
And if we're not
dealing with emotions,
then they come out in rage,
or passive aggressive,
or addictions.
And so we might have
taken on as that
was modeled for us to blame,
to ignore, to get aggressive,
to not take accountability,
to stuff emotions.
And so we are not bound by
the choices of our parents,
or our grandparents,
or our ancestors.
We might have been
modeled by it.
exposed to it.
We might have been
deeply imprinted by it.
But we are not limited by it.
We have the ability
to evolve beyond it.
Look at its unconsciousness,
bless it with gratitude,
and say, I'm going to
make a different choice.
>>SUE: Hard to do.
Hard to do, sometimes.
>>ANANDA: Yeah, hi.
>>SUE: It's hard
to do, sometimes.
Because we want to
respect our parents.
Our parents were our gods.
They knew everything.
They were everything to us.
And so when the natural
evolution is taking place
through us, it's a
little hard because we
don't want to outshine.
We don't want to go further.
And we want to belong
and to be proud of us.
And to be connected in this way.
So how do we break
these patterns?
These karmic,
ancestral patterns,
how do we break them with grace
and allow ourselves to shine?
>>ANANDA: And this is
where it takes courage.
Because we have the
social responsibility
to evolve beyond what
our parents gave us.
Let's stand on their shoulders.
Let's receive the
wonderful traditions,
the qualities they
modeled that were
spot on that we want to take.
And give ourselves permission
to evolve beyond your father.
What a wonderful influence that
he opened the door for you.
And you have the responsibility
to take that and evolve
beyond it.
To add to it.
And so that gives
us permission to not
be the little girl,
the little boy that
just is underneath the shadow
of our parents positively
or negatively.
Because I might need to come
out of the saddle of my father's
addiction or his aggression.
I might need to come out of
the saddle of my mother's
bipolar or her oppressing her
emotions or her insecurity.
So we also want to
evolve beyond our parents
shadow and their light
and give ourselves
permission to learn
from their intelligence
and also from their
unconsciousness.
To learn from their wounding,
as well as their courage.
And that's evolution.
And the process of that is being
aware that I'm an individual.
I'm individual.
I am separate
from, influenced by
and shaped by, but still an
individual soul on my own path.
And I think because
our bloodline,
we feel guilt and obligation
to do it their way.
And part of
individuation, which is
happening in the third chakra,
is saying I am an individual.
And I may have different
beliefs, some same,
but I also have the freedom
to have my own beliefs.
And I have the necessity
to walk my own path.
Take what they gave
me and add to it
and follow my own
soul's intuition.
Which, I think, is
exciting and liberating.
>>SUE: Doesn't have to be
either or, black and white,
all or nothing.
>>ANANDA: Yes.
And let's take
what we gave them,
let's take what they gave
us and let's add to it.
>>SUE: So I have
a quick question
then I want to go into
your shamangelic healing.
How often do you
find that people
that come to you actually
living into the very shadow side
of their parents unknowingly?
Just, like, the thing
they didn't like the most,
they're actually doing
it right in front of you.
IS this a common?
>>ANANDA: So often--
I laugh hysterically because
we don't want to say oh,
you sound like your father or
your sound like your mother.
It's the worst.
Don't ever say that.
You're like, no, you're right.
And that cringing that
through all of that influence
and all of that modeling, that
we sound like our parents.
In good ways, yes, sometimes.
We model good things and
we're saying yes, that's
a positive thing to say.
And other times, so
often, we've taken
those other than excellent,
unconscious qualities
because they were modeled
and socially reinforced.
And we can break those patterns.
And in the sessions
that I do, that's
one of the things we bring to
light is to acknowledge hey,
this is one of those
unconscious patterns
that we took from father,
or mother, or caregiver
that we don't have to keep.
We can upgrade it.
And that's where
we are not bound
by my alcoholic tendencies,
or aggression, or blame.
We're not bound by that.
And it takes awareness and
a willingness to evolve.
But it takes the awareness
first to say, hey,
do I want to pass
this onto my kids?
And this is where we get to
pass those bloodline, karmic
patterns that says, hey, just
because this was modeled--
and I noticed that
when as a parent,
I start astounded
sounding like my dad.
In many ways, that was great.
In other ways, I was like oh.
I didn't want to pass on some
of those things to my kids.
And I had to be accountable.
I had to be aware.
And I also had to
be courageously
committed to breaking
those patterns
and learn some new ones
so that I could pass
something else onto my kids.
>>SUE: That's it.
That's what we have to share
in consciousness today is
that hey, this is
not a big deal.
This is what we're here to do.
We're here to reach in
there, grab this stuff,
open it up, here it up,
bring conscious to it,
and move on and evolve.
>>ANANDA: But the
silver lining is
the depth of the relationship
now that I have with myself,
and that I got to experience
in the later years with my dad,
and then with my
children has changed
so much what I took from my
parents and now passed on.
And they'll take
and improve it, too.
They'll improve on--
>>SUE: They'll be like,
can you believe mom?
That was crazy.
>>ANANDA: Oh, my gosh, right?
7.0, go ahead.
Improve, go right ahead.
>>SUE: So tell us about
your unique approach
with shamangelic healing.
>>ANANDA: Oh, well,
the shamangelic--
because when I was having
my shamanic journeys where
a lot of this deep, old,
yucky, gooey, heavy, dark stuff
that I'd been holding for
a long time was released,
it was kind of traumatic
to have that all come up.
And I thought what was
missing was the tenderness.
And so in my healing
practice, what I've added
is that tenderness,
that compassion,
that gentleness
that holds a space.
And so shamangelic
healing is this blending
of the feminine nurturing.
Honoring where we're wounded.
And also, the facing the
fears and let's get radically
honest about hey,
that's not yours,
or that doesn't fit
who you're becoming,
or you don't have to
hold that any longer.
That is able to be the truth
teller and call it out.
And find this beautiful,
delicious balance
of the feminine and
the masculine, the fire
and the water, and
the groundedness
and the spirituality
and blend it.
And that has been such a
deeply beautiful experience
to hold space for clients,
couples, individuals,
and groups of people to have
radical transformation that
are dealing with
core life shifts
and helping them to
turn their life around,
reclaim their power.
And stand in who they are
and create a thriving life.
And then turn around and
find their soul's mission
and make an impact
on other people.
That lights me up.
>>SUE: Yes, indeed.
So the combination
is so important.
I was in the depths of
the villages in India
with a great scrub down and
it was anything, but gentle.
It was like, you get this.
And so I can so
appreciate what you're
saying about this need for the
combination of this compassion
and this great clarification
all at the same time.
Scrub down with a fluffy towel.
>>ANANDA: We need both.
We need inspiration
and we need honesty.
We need courage.
We need a nudge.
We need a tender embrace.
>>SUE: So specific
modalities that you're
doing to provide this
for people, what is that?
>>ANANDA: Wonderful.
So my signature--
there's two sessions
that I really love to offer.
And the signature
one-on-one session
is called My Shamangelic
Healing Journey
and that's a
two-hour experience.
And the first part of
that is holding space,
like we're doing today.
And to really just hold
space for the story,
for the wounding.
And in that space, I get to
sit in this place of seeing
where the energy is leaking.
Where the story's disempowering.
My guides are working to
show me different things.
And I get to
uncover and discover
who this person is
underneath it all.
I get shown very clearly
where the core wounds are.
Where the disempowerment is.
And so in that first part
of the session is discovery.
There might be a
perspective shift.
There might be
counseling in there.
And that's really the
uncovering and the holding.
Then the second
part of the session
is going into the
healing room and that's
where the real magic happens.
And in that space, we
might do a regression.
We might do a combination
of sound healing, touch,
holding space.
We might have a deep
cathartic release.
We might bring in
a spiritual guide.
We might go into
our future selves.
It's never the same.
My guides work with
me and whoever's
on the table and their guides.
Maybe an ancestor or a loved
one will come in for the journey
and I get to have this
nice, big medicine
bag of sound
healing, breath work,
guided visualization,
working with guides,
hands-on touch, essential oils.
And I get to orchestrate and
be a part of a tailored journey
that is deeply soulful
and empowering that
goes deep, gently, powerfully to
guide people through a journey.
And it is delicious.
It's always new.
I never know what's
going to happen
because I'm a conduit for
whatever is coming through.
And each journey
is new, and unique,
and tailored in the moment
for the person's healing
and awakening.
>>SUE: And what is the
end goal of the session?
When you-- I know you don't know
the route it's going to take,
but what's the end game there?
>>ANANDA: They
remember who they are.
They feel and
reconnect to the part
of their authentic power,
their divine light,
their internal truth.
They get to come home to that
place before the wounding,
before the layers of limiting
beliefs, and programming,
and oppression.
They get to come back to that
place of True North, again.
Which is so beautiful
to see the shift when
they come in to the session with
the wounding, and the layers,
in the walls, and
the limitations.
And then when it's
dissolved, when they're open,
when they're in this
place of authenticity,
I get to see the sparkle
return to their eyes.
I get to see the truth and
their authentic emotion return
to their face, into their body.
They remember who they are.
And it's such a
beautiful opportunity
to witness that transformation.
And reflect that back to them
to say that's who you are.
Can you feel that?
And it's just such an
honor to hold space
for that much transformation
in such a short period of time.
>>SUE: What about
sustainability?
Do they integrate?
How do you facilitate
integration of that experience?
>>ANANDA: Yes, I think the
awakening is the first part
and then we have
to learn the tools.
Because we can
remember, but then
we're going to still go back
to these limiting beliefs.
And so that's where my
online coaching comes in.
To say, hey, let's
make sure you have
the tools to help you remember.
And are using visualizations,
and you're using affirmations.
And that you're learning
conscious communication.
That you're learning spiritual
connection with meditations.
That you're learning
empowerment tools.
And I feel it's important that
people have daily practices.
That they have communities of
support to keep them on track
because it's like
a log by the fire.
That when we pull it away,
without that inspiration,
without that support
of community,
we forget and we go back
to our old patterns.
And so I'm big on integration
with programs, online programs,
personal coaching, retreats,
and different approaches
to help them stay
in that inspiration
and stay in the
awakening process.
>>SUE: As a healer, what
skills do you rely on the most
to allow this to be effective?
>>ANANDA: This is one that not
any of my teachers or trainers
ever taught me and
it's the sacred heart.
The ability to provide
unconditional love
in a situation for
whatever is happening
is a tool none of my teachers
really taught me how to do.
It's the Anahata, Anahata
is the heart chakra,
it's that opportunity
that that's
the most powerful
healing modality
is to be in the heart space
with whatever is happening.
Whether that's an addiction.
Whether that is blame.
Whether that's a cancer.
And I think that that's my
most powerful healing modality
and the others are intuition,
compassion, presence.
And trusting and listening to
what my guides are telling me
and what my heart is.
The wisdom of my sacred
heart, that that's
the most powerful thing.
Then, of course, I have
the whole medicine bag
of different tools
that I can pull out
that intuitively will
match what the person is
needing in that moment.
But by far, the
heart and intuition
are the most powerful
healing gifts.
>>SUE: Beautiful.
You've mentioned your
guides a couple of times.
Can you say more
about that dynamic?
>>ANANDA: Yeah,
it's nice to know
that I'm not alone in this.
It's not me, it's us.
I feel that there's
ideas, there's
information,
there's perspectives
that come in that I
would have never done,
that I would have never guessed.
The first time I
started trusting
that was when I was starting
doing card readings.
At the very, very beginning,
almost two decades ago
and I started
doing card readings
and my clairvoyance
started turning on,
my ability to see things.
My ability to hear
things, clear audience.
My ability to sense
things, clear sentence.
It all started coming
on and I didn't really
know how to use those skills.
I didn't know how
to trust those.
And a teacher that I was
working with at the time
was like, trust it.
Don't doubt it.
Don't block it.
Don't argue with it.
Just allow it to come in.
And when I would do that and
just allow it and trust it,
the most profound
things that would
be happening in the readings
because I would see something.
I would see someone's
guide standing behind them.
And instead of shutting it off,
doubting it, and oppressing it,
I was like what if I actually
just brought that guide
and what they were
doing and what they were
saying into the experience?
And I realized that I have an
alliance of support, of wisdom,
of guidance that I can
access at any moment that
is always right, it's
always smarter than me,
it's always wiser, and
has an intelligence
to read the situation and
land exactly what's needed.
And so I've learned
to collaborate
humbly and gratefully with my
guides and spiritual counsel.
It comes in many forms.
>>SUE: Do you see that these
guides are around everyone?
That everyone has this
separate sense of support?
>>ANANDA: Yes, I believe that
they're around everybody.
Whether they sense it or
not is up to the individual.
Whether they have that blocked.
Whether their beliefs don't
allow them to access that.
Whether they think if somebody's
passed, that they're gone,
and we don't have
access to them anymore.
And my personal experiences
as I keep growing and learning
is saying that that's
actually false there.
They're there all
the time, it's just
whether or not our channels are
receptive enough to receive it.
There can be guides
in many forms.
And I've learned
that humbly, I'll
take all the support I can get.
Whether it's a mountain,
an animal spirit guide,
I'm willing to
receive any guidance
I can get, as long as
it's for my highest good
and it helps the situation.
>>SUE: It's all one thing.
It's all just consciousness.
And we're tapping into higher
and higher realms of it.
And the higher the realm we
tap into, the greater capacity
we have to heal
ourselves and to unpack
these core aspects
of our being that
have been behind the blinders.
>>ANANDA: It feels nice
to not be all alone.
And I feel because
on our journey,
we are alone, in
many ways, because we
have to take the steps.
And we have our human
family to help us with that.
And to know that there's
unconditional love
and guidance that can be
really valuable and honest.
And nudging, inviting
you to awaken it
and step into my power more.
I don't always like
what I'm hearing.
It scares me.
It excites me.
It makes me nervous.
And yet, it's always spot on.
And so there's a
level of comfort
that I receive in knowing that
I'm not on this journey alone.
>>SUE: Can a client
have a profound shift
in just one session with you?
>>ANANDA: 100%.
100%.
The other session
that's really valuable
is the breath work session.
And in that, I
think, that's where
I can work with many,
many clients at once.
And the shamangelic breath
work really does go deep.
We can have a lot of
cathartic emotional release.
And in that, a lot
of nurturing support.
And bringing in those higher
frequencies of the angelic rims
or higher self,
we can bring that
in all in one session, quite a
lot in a short period of time.
So not only the
one-on-one session
of the shamangelic
healing journey,
but shamangelic
breath work takes it
to another level of depth.
And that can happen
with families.
That can happen with
whole groups of people.
I just did a retreat
a couple weeks
back where I had a whole
team of other support people
that we did a whole shamangelic
breath worked for 50 people
at a time, together doing
this emotional releasing
and spiritual expanse.
It was just profound.
>>SUE: Can you share
with us an example of one
of these profound experiences
that you've facilitated.
>>ANANDA: So
shamangelic breath work
looks like you're laying down
and it's this deep breathing.
Just deep inhales and exhales.
And you're allowing the breath
to be the shaman that it is.
And invite it down
into the basement where
things have been stuffed
under the carpet,
there in the corner.
And we ignore them allow them
to come up and to be released.
And so in that
process, people are
able to release pain from past
lifetimes, trauma, and abuse.
And face their fears with this
combination of angelic support
and the shamanic
courage to say, hey, you
don't have to hold
that any longer.
With drumming, with rattles,
with encouraging words,
we might have a
lot of fire and we
might have a lot of water,
which would be a lot of tears
and a lot of sadness.
And to hold somebody
in their sobbing
and to bring that delicious
compassionate Mother Mary
energy and to hold
someone in their sobbing
is just such an honor.
And also to help them
with clearing out density
that they've been holding
from their bloodline,
from their past that is holding
them back is so liberating
and an honor to hold space for.
And people come out,
like, all shiny.
Wow, I've been holding
that for a long time.
And I know my first
one, rage came out.
And other times,
I've been rolled over
in a little ball like a little
baby just crying and crying.
And not about any one
particular issue, but all of it.
Dr. Sue, just all of
the disappointments
and all of the
sadness and the loss.
And having a safe space
for it to be expressed
and honored and not
shamed or repressed.
>>SUE: Beautiful.
Anahata leads a healing
retreat called The Empowerment
and Awakening Weekend.
Here's what some
of the participants
had to say about
their experiences.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
- I've gained deep insights.
I can see things through
different perspectives.
I'm gaining more
confidence in myself.
I'm becoming more aware of some
of the things I do really well.
- The Empowerment and Awakening
was incredibly beneficial.
I learned so much on how
to be a better human.
How to-- a great description
for it is being a human 101.
It really teaches
you just so much.
Stuff that they should
teach you in school.
- Like, there's a whole
different part of me
that's opened up that I never
realized I had access to.
And that part of me is
actually, the invitation
for spirit and other
resources to come through me.
To make me stronger.
To make me more--
to shine brighter in
the world, really.
The reason that I ultimately
chose to work with her
is because of her integrity.
And she does what she says.
And she takes a
stand for what she
believes in and is unwavering.
[PLAYBACK ENDS]
>>SUE: Beautiful.
Lot of joy.
>>ANANDA: It is.
>>SUE: Lot of shine.
>>ANANDA: I just, I want to
inspire millions to shine.
And just dissolving all of
these core wounds and limitation
beliefs.
Because underneath
it all, we all
have this power to rise, and
serve, and shine, and make
a positive impact, and leave
this planet and humanity better
than we found it.
And--
>>SUE: My mother
used to say that.
>>ANANDA: Is that right?
>>SUE: Leave it better
than you found it.
Anyplace you go, leave it
better than you found it.
>>ANANDA: That's improvement.
>>SUE: So tell us about--
I teach a lot of breath
work, as well, in the courses
that I teach around the world.
And so I'd like to just share
with the audience, because I
know that it's
extraordinarily valuable,
breath work, the mechanisms
of the shamangelic breathing
that you're doing.
Shamanic breath is
this deep inhale,
exhale through the mouth.
It's just coming in, really
animating and oxygenating
the blood.
And allowing us to activate
deep core wisdom centers.
Can you just share
with us the mechanism
that you feel that does to help
produce the outcomes that we
just saw in these
people's faces?
>>ANANDA: We're going after
what is blocking our light.
And whether that's emotion,
a limitation, a heaviness.
And this is where I think the
breathing is so intelligent.
Now there's Yogic
breathing, where we're
breathing in the upper centers.
>>SUE: Coming up in here.
>>ANANDA: And we're
awakening up here.
And shamanic or
what I like to do,
shamangelic breath work is
let's go down here first
so that we can clear
out what's in the way.
And then we make room to
breathe into the upper centers,
into the heart.
And we can bring in love.
We can breathe in truth.
We can breathe in
peace, grace, healing.
But let's go down--
I like to think of it as
an infinity loop-- let's
go down into the basement
and like a broom,
clean out what's
down there first.
And then let's allow the breath
to open the upper centers
and open into this
unlimited possibilities.
And we're, of course,
hyper-oxygenating the body
and we're clearing
out physical toxicity.
But we're also clearing
out energetic and emotional
toxicity that is in the
way of our truest essence.
And then in the journey that
I like to take people on,
we go down into the deep places.
There's the shaman, let's
go take a look at it.
And then, we go through
these different waves
where we open into, what
are we putting in its place?
Well, if we let go of that
density, then what light,
what love, what truth
can we bring in?
And so then there's
this opportunity
to open, to feel, to receive.
And it's this whole journey.
And the shamangelic
aspect is I'm deeply
holding space right
there, one-on-one involved
with people's journey.
Supporting them with
whatever modality
will help them move the
energy out or move it in,
depending on where they
are on their journey.
It might be taking tears
of pain that have risen
and allowing it to be placed
on their heart for healing.
Or celebrate with them.
Or help them to release
this anger or rage
where it has been blocked
here around their throat.
So it's in the moment,
intuitively reading each person
and deeply weaving
into their journey
and helping to accelerate
the depth of it.
>>SUE: Beautiful.
So tell us about your podcast
and how people can contact you.
>>ANANDA: Oh, wonderful.
Well, the Shamangelic
Healing Podcast,
I wanted to have
a larger platform
to inspire millions to shine.
And the Shamangelic
Podcast is that.
There's conversations like
this about consciousness,
about meditation, about
core wounds, codependency,
vibrant health, and
relationships, and traumas.
And it's a full range of
resources, all the way up
the chakras and down and
different real life experiences
that are available.
Conversations with
great experts,
like you, that have wisdom
to bring to the table
and share with the audience.
And so Shamangelic
Healing Podcast
is on all of those platforms.
And then Anahata Ananda is--
I'm on the social media
for Anahata Ananda.
And shamangelichealing.com
is where I am in Sedona.
And I'm just here to help people
through these core life shifts
and reclaim their power.
Turn their life around and
create a thriving life.
And make a difference
because we're all here
to make a difference.
And if we get all that
other stuff out of the way,
we can get to the business
of leaving this planet
and humanity better
than we found it.
>>SUE: Beautiful.
You're certainly
playing your part.
>>ANANDA: It's fun.
This whole thing can be a
blast, to serve from the heart.
>>SUE: Well, thank you so
much for being with us today
on "Healing Matrix."
It's a delight to share
with you what you're doing
and to bring this
to our viewers.
It's been a pleasure.
>>ANANDA: And thank
you for paving the way
and being a wave shower.
And this platform is really
impacting so many people.
That we have alternative
platforms for consciousness
reaching such international
audiences so thank you.
>>SUE: Yes, we want to bridge
science and spirituality
and just open it up
to land for everyone.
>>ANANDA: We have so many
tools that our parents didn't
and so we get to do
something with that.
>>SUE: Yes, we get to honor it.
Thank you.
>>ANANDA: Thank you.
>>SUE: Anahata Ananda is
testament to just how powerful
it is to work with
a healer who can
bring about true
change on a soul level.
I'm Dr. Sue Morter.
Thank you for joining
us on "Healing Matrix."
[MUSIC PLAYING]